# OoOOOOO

### Out of Order Overlap-Oriented Operations Orchestrator

## Overview

This is a proof of concept / learning CPU and, as such, is very minimal and probably has horrible performance.

Stats:
- 8b data
- 16b instructions
- 64-instruction (128b) instruction ROM
- Minimal ISA
- ~8-phase pipeline

## Planning

Here is the spreadsheet with ISA, flags, and more: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16_0SKhYv4nf63dgu0O2lZHWwvcB_LOQWKF2n6ab5NWI/edit?gid=0#gid=0).

## Design Choices

This project is intended to replicate the functionality of / aid in the creation of a Minecraft version of this. As such, some design choices were aimed at simplicity for Minecraft construction which may negatively impact verilog simulation performance.

For instance, values are not populated in the issuer, and instead are requested from the PRF if ready using the standard CDB. This means that each instruction could take up to 2 cycles in verilog to issue (because the CDB can transmit only 1 value per cycle), but in Minecraft, the frequency at which the CDB can transmit is faster than the clock cycle, so this would have minimal performance impact in practice.

Another major design flaw is that backing up / restoring the renaming table in Minecraft is very nontrivial due to how regfiles are built, so I will be stalling at the decoder on a branch. This is unfortunate but my only feasible option to complete this proof of concept.

## AI Usage / Credits
The testbenches (`*_tb.sv`) were either generated by or with the assistance of LLMs. All non-testbenches were written by Zeb (unless otherwise noted) and at most debugged or planned with the assistance of LLMs.